Well, when I was a teenager,
I didn’t see any benefit
in talking to my parents
because they
liked different things than I liked.
So I thought, ‘Well, what’s the point?’
And I also wanted to be an adult.
I wanted to feel like an adult
and be treated like an adult.
I remember when my mom
used to pick me up from school.
She wanted to show personal interest in me,
so she’d ask me:
“Oh, how are your friends doing?
“How was school today?
Do you have a lot of homework?”
But I just thought that she was being nosy.
I always had my earphones on.
And whenever my parents
were trying to talk to me,
that was my chance
to just pop them in and ignore them.
The way my parents grew up wasn’t
the same way that I grew up.
They grew up in a different country;
they spoke a different language;
they grew up in a different time.
When you’re talking to somebody
who doesn’t speak your language natively,
oftentimes you won’t be able
to explain things from your heart.
And so I had that challenge.
I wasn’t able to talk directly
to my parents heart to heart.
And so there was always this frustration
in trying to really convey how I felt.
And I felt like I
wasn’t really getting through to my parents.
When I went to my first pioneer school,
I learned a lot about Jehovah’s qualities.
And one of them was
how he was a very approachable Person.
And I thought to myself,
‘Am I an approachable person?’
And I thought about how
I acted in the ministry
and then at the meetings and then at home.
And I realized that at home
I had a lot of things I needed to fix.
I felt like it was two different worlds
I was living in.
One was when I was at school with my peers;
I felt like I was understood.
And at home,
I kind of just withdrew to myself.
I wouldn’t try to communicate with them
because it didn’t seem worth the effort.
I tried to figure out problems in my own way.
It was kind of trial and error.
I developed a lot of bad habits
that today I’m still trying to overcome.
If I’d been able
to communicate with them more,
if I’d been able to connect
with them and ask for their help
and get their support
and have them on my team,
things would have gone a lot better.
And I really wish I had.
Jesus, who was a perfect human being
and who had perfect judgment,
didn’t make decisions on his own.
He always looked to his Father for guidance.
And that got me thinking,
‘Well, if Jesus did that,
‘there has to be something good
in it for me too.’
What really helped me was Colossians 4:6.
I knew I needed to speak
more graciously in the family.
And I realized
that I was speaking very defensively
and that I needed
to be more approachable to my parents.
When I first tried to talk with them,
of course,
it was awkward and I didn’t want to talk
about anything personal
because I wasn’t used to it.
So I thought I could maybe
ask them about themselves
—ask them how their day was
or what they liked from the meetings.
So I just tried to show more interest in them
instead of focusing on myself.
And I think that’s what got
the conversations going
and got me comfortable
to really talk with them.
I was so focused on how my parents
weren’t understanding me
that I wasn’t really trying
to understand them.
When I thought about my parents,
I thought about how much work
it takes to be a parent.
From when I was a baby, for many years,
they were working day and night
to try to care for me.
They never demanded a thank you
or anything from me.
They were really self-sacrificing.
And I imagined:
‘If I had to work that much for somebody,
‘how would I feel if they
didn’t really say thank you?
‘Or how would I feel
‘if this person whom I worked so hard for
didn’t really view me as their friend?’
Later on, as I got older and started
that communication going with my parents,
I realized that taking their advice
and really listening to their opinions
and always letting them know
what I’m going to do
and where I’m going to go
was a mature thing to do.
Our heart oftentimes
takes the driver’s seat, and it directs us
to where it thinks it should go.
And oftentimes it goes
in the wrong direction,
and we sometimes get hurt.
Then we look back and say,
“I wish I hadn’t done that.”
And our parents have been there.
What they’re trying to do
for us now is to tell us,
“Don’t let your heart
take the driver’s seat.”
If I could talk to my teenage self,
I would tell myself to see
my mom and dad more like coaches,
because I used to think
they were always trying to criticize me
and point out my faults.
But, really, they’re just trying to help me,
and they want me to have a happy life.
I really wish I knew that as a teenager.
But I’m glad I learned that now.